Newcomers

Alcoholics Anonymous (AA)?

Introduction

If you seem to be having trouble with your drinking, or if your drinking has reached the point of where it worries you, you may be interested to know something about Alcoholics Anonymous and the AA programme of recovery from alcoholism.

After reading this brief outline you may decide that AA has nothing to offer you. Should this be the case, we suggest only that you keep an open mind on the subject. Consider your drinking carefully in the light of what you learn from this website.

Determine for yourself whether or not alcohol has truly become a problem for you and remember that you will always be most welcome to join the thousands of men and women in AA who have put their drinking problems behind them and now lead "normal" lives of constructive, day by day sobriety.

If you call AA and ask someone to come and see you to tell you more about alcoholism, or perhaps when you attend your first meeting, you may be given a 'Starter Pack' to help understand more about alcoholism and the fellowship of AA. Contact Us.

Most of the pamphlets that are in the starter pack have been made available online too. You can download them from the links below and read them at you leisure. These are in PDF format which most computers can open.

Who Me?
A Newcomer Asks
Now that you have stopped - 15 Points
Just for today
Preamble, 12-Steps, 12-Traditions and Serenity Prayer card
Medical & Safeguarding Card
Remember there are no dues or fees for AA.

Who We Are

We in AA are men and women who have discovered, and admitted, that we cannot control alcohol. We have learned that we must live without it if we are to avoid disaster for ourselves and those close to us.

With local groups in thousands of communities, we are part of an informal international fellowship with members in more than 100 countries. We have but one primary purpose: to stay sober ourselves and to help others who may turn to us for help in achieving sobriety.

We are not reformers and we are not allied with any group, cause, religious denomination or ethnic background. We have no wish to dry up the world. We do not recruit members. We avoid imposing our viewpoint on problem drinking on others, even if asked.

Within our membership may be found men and women of varying age groups and many different social, economic and cultural backgrounds. Some of us drank for many years before coming to the realisation we could not handle alcohol. Others were fortunate enough to appreciate, early in life or in our drinking careers, that alcohol had become unmanageable.

The consequences of our alcoholic drinking (and thinking) have also varied. Some of our members had become derelicts before turning to AA for help. They had lost family, possessions and self-respect. They had been in the gutter. They had been hospitalised and jailed. They had committed many grave offences — against society, their families, their employers and themselves.

Others among us have never been jailed or hospitalised. Nor have they lost jobs through drinking. But even those men and women finally came to the point where they realised that alcohol was interfering with normal living. When they discovered that they could not seem to live without alcohol, they too sought help through AA rather than prolong their irresponsible drinking.

All the great faiths are represented in our Fellowship and many religious leaders have encouraged our growth. There are even atheists and agnostics among us. Belief in, or adherence to, a formal creed is not a condition of membership.

We are united by a common problem; — alcohol. Through meetings and talking with other alcoholics we are somehow able to stay sober. We lose the compulsion to drink which was once the dominant force in our lives.

While there may be other solutions to problem drinking, we know that the AA programme works for us and we have seen it work for every newcomer, almost without exception, who honestly and sincerely wanted to quit drinking.

Through AA we have learned a number of things about alcoholism and about ourselves. We try to keep these facts uppermost in our minds at all times because they seem to be the key to our sobriety. For us sobriety must always be our first concern.

About Alcoholism

The first thing we have learned about alcoholism is that it is one of the oldest problems in man's history. Only recently have we begun to benefit from new approaches to the problem. Doctors today, for example, know a great deal more about alcoholism than their predecessors knew only two generations ago. They are beginning to define the problem and study it in detail.

While there is no formal "AA definition" of alcoholism, the majority of our members agree that, for most of us, it could be described as a physical compulsion, coupled with a mental obsession. What we mean is that we had a distinct physical desire to consume alcohol beyond our capacity to control it, in defiance of all rules of common sense. We not only had an abnormal craving for alcohol but we frequently yielded to it at the worst possible times. We did not know when (or how) to stop drinking. Often we did not seem to have sense enough to know when not to begin.

As alcoholics, we have learned the hard way that willpower alone, however strong in other respects, was not enough to keep us sober. We have tried going on the wagon for specific periods. We have taken solemn pledges. We have switched brands and beverages. We have tried drinking at only certain hours. But none of our plans worked. We always wound up, sooner or later, getting drunk when we not only wanted to stay sober and had every rational incentive to do so.

We have gone through stages of dark despair when we were sure that something was wrong with us mentally. We came to hate ourselves for wasting the talents with which we were endowed and for the trouble we were causing our families and others. Frequently, we indulged in self-pity and proclaimed that nothing could ever help us. We can smile at those recollections now but at the time they were grim, unpleasant experiences.

Today we are willing to accept the idea that, as far as we are concerned, alcoholism is an illness; a progressive illness that can never be "cured" but which, like some other illnesses, can be arrested. We agree that there is nothing shameful about having an illness, provided we face the problem honestly and try to do something about it. We are perfectly willing to admit that we are allergic to alcohol and that it is simply common sense to stay away from the source of the allergy.

We understand now, that once a person has crossed the invisible line from heavy drinking to compulsive alcoholic drinking, they will always remain alcoholic. So far as we know, there can never be any turning back to "normal" social drinking. "Once an alcoholic — always an alcoholic" is a simple fact we have to live with.

We have also learned that there are few alternatives for the alcoholic. If they continue to drink, their problem will become progressively worse. They seems assuredly on the path to the gutter, to hospitals, to jails or other institutions, or to an early grave. The only alternative is to stop drinking completely and to abstain from even the smallest quantity of alcohol in any form. If they are willing to follow this course, and to take advantage of the help available to them, a whole new life can open up for the alcoholic.

Cocaine Anonymous (CA)?

What is Cocaine Anonymous?

We are a Fellowship of addicts who meet together to share our hope, faith, and courage for the purpose of staying sober and helping others achieve the same freedom. Everything heard at our meetings is to be treated as confidential. There are no dues or fees of any kind. To be a member, you only have to want to quit. We also exchange phone numbers, and give and seek support from one another between meetings.

We are all on equal footing here. We are men and women of all ages, races and social backgrounds, with the common bond of addiction. The Twelve-Step program of Cocaine Anonymous is gratefully borrowed from Alcoholics Anonymous. Many years of experience have demonstrated the value of one addict helping another.

We welcome newcomers to C.A. with more genuine warmth and acceptance in our hearts than you can probably now imagine — for you are the lifeblood of our program. In great part, it is by carrying the message of recovery to others like ourselves that we keep our own sobriety. We are all helping ourselves by helping each other. Contact Us.

Who is a Cocaine Addict?

Some of us can answer without hesitation, "I am!" Others aren’t so sure. Cocaine Anonymous believes that no one can decide for another whether he or she is addicted. One thing is sure, though: every single one of us has denied being an addict. For months, for years, we who now freely admit that we are cocaine addicts thought that we could control cocaine when in fact it was controlling us.

"I only use on weekends," or
"It hardly ever interferes with work," or
"I can quit, it’s only psychologically addicting, right?" or
"I only snort, I don’t base or shoot," or
"It’s this relationship that’s messing me up."

Many of us are still perplexed to realize how long we went on, never getting the same high we got at the beginning, yet still insisting, and believing — so distorted was our reality — that we were getting from cocaine what actually always eluded us. We went to any lengths to get away from being ourselves. The lines got fatter; the grams went faster; the week’s stash was all used up today. We found ourselves scraping envelopes and baggies with razor blades, scratching the last flakes from the corners of brown bottles, snorting or smoking any white speck from the floor when we ran out. We, who prided ourselves on our fine-tuned state of mind! Nothing mattered more to us than the straw, the pipe, the needle. Even if it made us feel miserable, we had to have it.

Some of us mixed cocaine with alcohol or other drugs and found temporary relief in the change, but in the end, it only compounded our problems. We tried quitting by ourselves, finally, and managed to do so for periods of time. After a month, we imagined we were in control. We thought our system was cleaned out and we could get the old high again, using half as much. This time, we’d be careful not to go overboard. But we only found ourselves back where we were before, and worse.

We never left the house without using first. We didn’t make love without using. We didn’t talk on the phone without coke. We couldn’t fall asleep; sometimes it seemed we couldn’t even breathe without cocaine. We tried changing jobs, apartments, cities, lovers — believing that our lives were being screwed up by circumstances, places, people. Perhaps we saw a cocaine friend die of respiratory arrest, and still we went on using! But eventually we had to face facts. We had to admit that cocaine was a serious problem in our lives, that we were addicts.

What Brought us to Cocaine Anonymous?

Some of us hit a physical bottom. It may have been anything from a nosebleed which frightened us, to sexual impotence, to loss of sensation in or temporary paralysis of a limb, to a loss of consciousness and a trip to an emergency room, to a cocaine-induced stroke that left us disabled. Maybe it was finally our gaunt reflection in the mirror.

Others of us hit an emotional or spiritual bottom. The good times were gone, the coke life was over. No matter how much we used, we never again achieved elation, only a temporary release from the depression of coming down, and often, not even that. We suffered violent mood swings. Perhaps we awoke to our predicament after threatening or actually harming a loved one, desperately demanding imagined hidden money. We were overcome by feelings of alienation from friends, loved ones, parents, children, society, from the sky, from everything wholesome. Even the dealer we thought was our friend turned into a stranger when we went to him without money. Perhaps we awoke in dread of the isolation we had created for ourselves — using alone, suffocated by our self-centred fear and our paranoia. We were spiritually and emotionally deadened. Perhaps we thought of suicide, or tried it.

Still others of us reached a different sort of bottom when our spending and lying cost us our jobs, credit, and possessions. Some of us reached the point where we couldn’t even deal; we consumed everything we touched before we could sell it. We simply could no longer afford to use. Sometimes the law intervened.

Most of us were brought down by a medley of financial, physical, social, and spiritual problems.

When we found Cocaine Anonymous, we learned that addiction is a progressive disease, chronic and potentially fatal. We were relieved to be told that addiction is not simply a moral problem, that it is a true disease over which the will alone is usually powerless. All the same, each of us must take responsibility for our own recovery. There is no secret, no magic. We each have to quit and stay sober; but we don’t have to do it alone!

What is the First Thing?

To the newcomer who wonders about the first thing he or she must do to achieve sobriety, we say that you have already done the first thing: you have admitted to yourself, and now to others, that you need help by the very act of coming to a meeting or seeking information about the C.A. program.

You are at this very moment doing what is necessary to stay sober: you’re not getting loaded. Cocaine Anonymous is a one-day-at-a-time program. We suggest that you not dwell on wanting to stay sober for the rest of your life, or for a year, or even a week. Once you have decided you want to quit, let tomorrow take care of itself. But sometimes it is too much for us to project even one whole day drug-free. That’s okay. Take recovery a day at a time, an hour a time, or even a minute at a time if necessary.

In the C.A. Fellowship, you are among addicts who are living without drugs. Make use of us! Take phone numbers. Between meetings, you may not be able to avoid contact with drugs and people who are still using. Some of us had no sober friends at all when we first came in. You have sober friends now! If you begin to feel restless, irritable and discontented, don’t wait. Give one of us a call, and don’t be surprised if one of us calls you when we need help!

It may surprise you that we discourage the use of any mind-altering substances, including alcohol and marijuana. It is the common experience of addicts in this and other programs that any drug use leads to relapse or substitute addiction. If you’re addicted to another substance, you’d better take care of it. If you’re not, then you don’t need it, so why mess with it? We urge you to heed this sound advice drawn from the bitter experience of other addicts. Is it likely you’re different?

We thought we were happy in our active addiction, but we were not. In C.A., we learn to live a new way of life. Cocaine Anonymous is a spiritual but not a religious program — our spiritual values are accessible to everyone.

We who are grateful recovering addicts ask you to listen closely to our stories. That is the main thing — listen! We know where you’re coming from, because we’ve been there ourselves. Yet we are now living drug-free, not only that, but living happily; many of us, happier than we have ever been before.

No one says that it is easy to arrest addiction. We had to give up old ways of thinking and behaving. We had to be willing to change. But we are doing it, gratefully, one day at a time.

Narcotics Anonymous (NA)?

Introduction

NA is a non-profit fellowship or society of men and women for whom drugs had become a major problem. We are recovering addicts who meet regularly to help each other to stay clean. There are no dues or fees. The only requirement for membership is the desire to stop using.

You don’t have to be clean when you get here, but after your first meeting we suggest that you keep coming back and come clean. You don’t have to wait for an overdose or jail sentence to get help from NA, nor is addiction a hopeless condition from which there is no recovery. It is possible to overcome the desire to use drugs with the help of the Twelve Step program of Narcotics Anonymous and the fellowship of recovering addicts.

Addiction is a disease that can happen to anyone. Some of us used drugs because we enjoyed them, while others used to suppress the feelings we already had. Still others suffered from physical or mental ailments and became addicted to the medication prescribed during our illnesses. Some of us joined the crowd using drugs a few times just to be cool and later found that we could not stop.

Many of us tried to overcome addiction, and sometimes temporary relief was possible, but it was usually followed by an even deeper involvement than before.

Whatever the circumstances, it really doesn’t matter. Addiction is a progressive disease such as diabetes. We are allergic to drugs. Our ends are always the same: jails, institutions, or death. If life has become unmanageable and you want to live without it being necessary to use drugs, we have found a way. Contact Us.

New to NA?

NA offers addicts a way to live drug-free.

You may be feeling hopeless and afraid. You may think this program, like other things you have tried, will not work. Most of us felt like that when we first came to NA.

If you are not sure you’re an addict, don’t worry about it; just keep coming to our meetings. You will have all the time you need to make up your own mind. Allow yourself the time to listen to us share about what it has been like for us. Perhaps you will hear something that sounds familiar to you.

Our message is very simple: We have found a way to live without using drugs, and we are happy to share it with anyone for whom drugs are a problem.

Here are some Information Pamphlets for people new to NA:

Am I an addict?
Welcome to Narcotics Anonymous
For the Newcomer
Introduction to NA Meetings
For Those in Treatment
Recovery
Recovery doesn’t stop with just being clean. As we abstain from all drugs (and, yes this means alcohol and marijuana, too) we come face-to-face with feelings that we have never coped with successfully. We even experience feelings we were not capable of having in the past. We must become willing to meet old and new feelings as they come.

We learn to experience feelings and realize they can do us no harm unless we act on them. Rather than acting on them, we call an NA member if we have feelings we cannot handle. By sharing, we learn to work through it. Chances are they’ve had a similar experience and can relate what worked for them. Remember, an addict alone is in bad company.

The Twelve Steps, new friends, and sponsors all help us deal with these feelings. In NA, our joys are multiplied by sharing good days; our sorrows are lessened by sharing the bad. For the first time in our lives, we don’t have to experience anything alone. Now that we have a group, we are able to develop a relationship with a Higher Power that can always be with us.

We suggest that you look for a sponsor as soon as you become acquainted with the members in your area. Being asked to sponsor a new member is a privilege so don’t hesitate to ask someone. Sponsorship is a rewarding experience for both; we are all here to help and be helped. We who are recovering must share with you what we have learned in order to maintain our growth in the NA program and our ability to function without drugs.

This program offers hope. All you have to bring with you is the desire to stop using and the willingness to try this new way of life.

Come to meetings, listen with an open mind, ask questions, get phone numbers and use them. Stay clean just for today.

Overeaters Anonymous (OA)?

Welcome to Overeaters Anonymous

Welcome to Overeaters Anonymous. OA is a Fellowship of individuals who, through shared experience, strength, and hope, are recovering from compulsive eating and compulsive food behaviours by working the Twelve Steps.

If you have tried to achieve a healthy body weight through many methods, only to fail repeatedly, or if your inability to control you’re eating is beginning to frighten you, then please consider attending an OA meeting.

At OA meetings, you will find others who have the same concerns and who share your feelings. Chances are you will find many of the answers you need. Overeaters Anonymous is a simple program that works. There are no dues or fees. We are self-supporting through our own contributions. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop eating compulsively.

As a newcomer to Overeaters Anonymous, you probably have many questions about this program of recovery. What makes OA different from other programs? How can OA help you recover from compulsive eating and maintain a healthy weight when everything else you’ve tried has failed? Can OA help you stop bingeing or yo-yo dieting? How can you achieve freedom from food obsession and compulsive eating? Is there any hope? Contact Us.

You Are Not Alone

You are no longer alone. We, too, have experienced hopelessness when we tried to control our problems with food or eating. We have tried every diet and used many methods to control our 3 body size, without success. We could not enjoy life because of our obsession with food, weight, and/or size. We could not stop eating too much even when we really wanted to. At times, some of us even refused to eat because we were afraid we would be overcome by our appetite. We felt shame and humiliation about our behaviour with food.

We are not like normal people when it comes to eating. What all of us have in common is that our bodies and minds send us signals about food which seem to be quite different from those the normal eater receives. Many of us can’t stop once we start eating, and even if we have managed to stop from time to time, we can’t keep from starting again. Some of us have repeatedly tried and failed to control other compulsive eating behaviours. So the cycle continues.

In Overeaters Anonymous, we learned that we have an illness, an unhealthy condition of body and mind that can be relieved on a daily basis. OA offers a solution. We find that we no longer want to return to the foods and eating behaviours that created uncontrollable cravings. We have been released from our mental obsession. We are able to achieve and maintain a healthy body weight. For us, that is nothing less than a miracle. We have found a way to abstain from our compulsive behaviours related to food, diets, weight, exercise, and/or body image.

We realized that we could not recover by ourselves, so we learned to share with other OA members. Instead of reaching for food to soothe our nerves, we went to a meeting, wrote about our feelings, read some OA literature, or called our sponsor. As we practiced these new and healthy behaviours, we began to feel safe. We found a home in the Fellowship and the support that OA offers us. We discovered that we can recover by following OA’s Twelve Steps and by reaching out to help others with the same problem.

We promise that if you work the Twelve Steps to the best of your ability, regularly attend meetings, and use OA’s Tools, your life will change. You will experience what we have: the miracle of recovery from compulsive eating.

Many Symptoms, One Solution

In Overeaters Anonymous, you’ll find members who are:

Extremely overweight, even morbidly obese
Only moderately overweight
Average weight
Underweight
Still maintaining periodic control over their eating behaviour
Totally unable to control their compulsive eating
OA members experience many different patterns of food behaviours. These “symptoms” are as varied as our membership. Among them are:

Obsession with body weight, size, and shape
Eating binges
Grazing
Preoccupation with reducing diets
Starving
Excessive exercise
Inducing vomiting after eating
Inappropriate and/or excessive use of diuretics and laxatives
Chewing and spitting out food
Use of diet pills, shots, and other medical interventions, including surgery, to control weight
Inability to stop eating certain foods after taking the first bite
Fantasies about food
Vulnerability to quick-weight-loss schemes
Constant preoccupation with food
Using food as a reward or for comfort
Our symptoms may vary, but we share a common bond: We are powerless over food and our lives are unmanageable. This common problem has led those in OA to seek and find a common solution in the Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions of Overeaters Anonymous. We find that, no matter 5 what our symptoms, we all suffer from the same disease — one that can be arrested by living this program one day at a time.